ADDECHO                                      Linux Programmer's Manual                                     	ADDECHO

NAME
	add_echo - Apply an echo effect to audio files

SYNOPSIS
	add_echo [-d delay] [-v volume_scale] inputfile outputfile

DESCRIPTION
	The ADD_ECHO command enhances audio files with an echo effect. Upon function call, users provide the inputfile 
	containing the source audio and specify the outputfile where the echoed audio will be saved. 
	Optional parameters -d and -v enable users to adjust the delay duration (in milliseconds) and the volume 
	scaling factor, respectively, allowing for altering of the echo effect.

	Internally, ADD_ECHO processes the input audio file, then introducing a delay between the original audio 
	signal and its echoed sample. Buffered audio segments, synchronized with the specified delay duration, are 
	then mixed in with the original signal. Volume adjustments are applied as necessary to ensure a proper
	balance between the original audio and its echoed sample.
	
RETURN VALUES
	The ADD_ECHO program returns 0 upon successful execution. Succesful execution is when input and output files are 
	opened/created properly,and the echo(if any) is mixed properly with the right delay and volume(if specified) into 
	the input audio and is written properly into the output audio.
	Non-zero return values indicate an error condition,such as failure to open or process the input file, and 
	are emitted accordingly.

EXAMPLES
 	The  program shown below demonstrates the use of addecho(). The first(optional) command-line argument specifies 
	a delay from which byte addecho() should add an echo onwards. The second (optional) argument specifies the 
	volume by which the echo should be scaled down by.(These arguments are converted to numeric form using strtol(3), 
	a function that converts strings to integers). The third command-line argument specifies the name of the input 
	file from where we will read the original sound.The fourth command-line argument specifies the name of the output 
	file to which we will write the original file and the echo to.
 	Some examples of the results produced  by  this  program are the following:

	Apply echo effect with a delay of 5000 samples and a volume scaling factor of 3:
	> add_echo -d 5000 -v 3 input.wav output.wav

	Apply echo effect with default parameters(delay of 8000 samples and a volume scaling factor of 4):
	> add_echo input.wav output.wav

WARNINGS
	ADD_ECHO may fail under the following conditions:
	1. Insufficient memory to buffer audio segments.
	2. Unsupported audio formats in the input file.

BUGS
	Known bugs of ADD_ECHO include:
	1. Inaccurate echo effect on certain audio samples, particularly those with complex frequency spectra.
	2. Potential distortion artifacts when applying high volume scaling factors.